This help will briefly describe the aspects of Lignum
Workbench component by component:

- Main window
   
  This window holds inside all the components of the program with
  the exception of function editor, which has a main window of it's
  own. Otherwise every component is a child of main window, and is
  closed when the main window closes.   

  Main window has the following components:

     * Menu bar, which has three different menus, "File", "Options"
       and "Tools".

       From "File" menu it's possible to load a tree to visualization
       and quit the program. Note that loading tree from the menu
       bypasses the XML-viewer, which is the main method for loading
       trees for visualization. 

       From "Options" menu the settings for visualization and the
       working directory of the program can be changed.
       Note that changing the working directory affects every part
       of the program which needs the current working directory.
       Settings of the visualization are described with more detail
       in it's own section below. 
       
     * Toolbar, from which the control mode of the visualization
       can be changed.

       Default value is "Orbit" which acts as if the camera is always
       focused to a fixed point in space. Loading a tree to
       visualization changes the point to the central point of the
       tree main axis. By holding mouse's left button down while
       moving it causes the camera to rotate around the focus point.
       Holding down the right button while moving the mouse up and down
       changes the distance of the camera from the point. 

       The focus point can be moved by clicking the toolbar item
       "Move center" and moving the mouse while holding down one of
       it's buttons (right down moves the point in xz-plane, and left
       moves in direction parallel to y-axis).
       
       Clicking "Free roam" from toolbar changes the control mode
       to give camera the freedom to move anywhere. Moving the mouse
       while holding the left button changes the direction of the camera.
       It can be moved forward (backward) by moving the mouse forward
       (backward) while holding it's right button down.

       Menubar has also item "Show object types" , which causes the
       tree segments and buds to be colored based on their LGAtype
       attribute value. 
              
     * Visualization area. 

       The visualization of trees are drawn to this part of the screen,
       which covers the majority of the window. Rendering is done in
       OpenGL.

- Console

  The console is displayed at the bottom of the main window, and
  it can be detached from window as it's a dock widget. While detached
  it can be resized and moved around. It can also be closed, and brought
  back from main window's menu bar item "Tools->Console...".

  From console it's possible to start external programs (i.e. run Lignum
  growth simulation) by writing the commands to the command line and
  clicking "Run"-button or pressing enter. The console will report whether
  the operation were succesfull or not, and it displays the text output of
  the external process in it's text window. The started process can also
  be stopped by clicking "Kill program"-button, but it's not quaranteed to
  work without problems.

- XML-viewer

  The XML-viewer displays the a tree-like view of the loaded tree. It
  can display multiple trees and the components of the tree can be
  browsed by expanding the items, which appear after loading the tree file
  to the viewer.  

  Loading happens by clicking the "Load tree..."-button and selecting
  the file to loaded for the viewer. The loading can take a while especially
  on older machines, and the GUI of the main window gets blocked while
  the file is loaded.

  Trees can be loaded to the visualization from the viewer by selecting
  wanted trees from the viewer and clicking the "Visualize selected"-button.
  The loading should take a while depending on the size of the tree, but
  it shouldn't block the main window from functioning while it processes
  the tree. Note that loading trees to visualization clears the previous
  visualization.

  After the trees have been loaded selecting item from the viewer paints
  the corresponding objects in the visualization with red color. The
  camera also focuses on the last object in the selection if the tracking
  is set on (see the check button in the bottom of the viewer). 

  Trees can also be removed from the viewer by selecting the wanted
  trees and clicking the "Remove selected"-button.

- Function editor
  
  With function editor it's possible to create and edit ASCII-files,
  but the main function of it is to paint functions consisting of
  2D-points. Values between each point is linearly interpolated,
  so a line is drawn between each adjacant point.
  
  The points in files are separated from each by black character, and
  comments can be written by starting a line with "#"-character.
  Note that all comments must in the beginning of the file, or it
  won't function correclty. The pointer gets updated automatically
  as user inserts (or updates existing) new points to file.

  The view of the painter can be adjusted by the spinboxes located
  on the bottom of the editor.

- Visualization settings

  By adjusting the parameters correctly in the visualization settings
  has an major impact on the performance of the visualization.
  The default settings should be OK for most systems and tree types,
  but they need some tweaking on low-end systems and some tree species.

  General principle is as follows: every parameter with word "detail"
  in it slow the performance as the value increases, but the objects
  with high detail look better than objects with low detail. So, it's
  practical to test the trees first with low detail, and then, if the
  performance is doable, increase some of them. Loading times also
  increase with high detail. Best values can be found by testing
  different values by self as every system is different. 

  Buds take a considerable amount of polygons to be rendered so by
  disabling them (clicking "Use buds"-button) can increase the
  performace noticably. Disabling leaves also has the same effect.

  Also the size of buds and the radius of petioles need some adjusting
  on some tree types as the Lignum model doesn't contain information
  about those attributes.

  The textures for segments, leaves and foliage can also be changed
  from the setting to suit the tree type to be visualized. If the
  leaves are rendered using textures (or the scene contains other
  transparent surfaces i.e. foliage), the output isn't correct if the
  BSP (Binary Space Partitioning) technique isn't set on. The BSP can
  slow the performance of the rendering depending on the geometry of
  the transparent surfaces. Usually hardwood trees aren't slowed down
  noticably, but trees with foliage are a bit. On the other hand the
  error of not using the BSP is most noticable on trees with foliage.
    
  Lighting, wiremodel and texturing can also be set on/off from the
  settings. 