Functional-structural tree models (FSTM) try to determine dynamics and
growth of woody perennial  plants by assessing physiological processes
in   their   (three   dimensional)   arborescent   form.    The   term
'functional-structural model' was introduced in [Mäkelä et al 97] that
compiles a series of articles where  the focus was set on what happens
in a single plant element  (such as shoot, internode, leaf, root hairs
etc.)  and  defining their  interactions.  Obviously, due  to possibly
thousands of interacting units such models are implemented as computer
programs  where the  program acts  as the  model and  as the  means to
follow,  solve and  analyse  the model  behaviour (\textit{In  silico}
simulations).

Schools:

-AMAP 'French School' (structure-->function)

-'L-System School' (language)

-'Helsinki School'  (function-->structure)


extending the  traditional three  step analysis of  a plant  where the
nature  of the  intrinsic processes  of the  entity are  analysed, the
differential  equations  describing  the  processes are  inferred  and
solved possibly  assuming some reasonably sufficient  geometry for the
entity.

By  looking  The  two  perspectives  of  plant  modelling,  structural
dynamics  and  physiological  processes,  have  evolved  independently
simplifying  or  simply  neglecting   the  standpoint  of  the  other.
However, the progress  in these two lines of  modelling have gradually
involved characteristics of each other bringing them closer.



LIGNUM is an FSM applied to 
Current interest

Objectives of this study.
 
Winfried  Kurth  has   classified  existing  modelling  approaches  in
forestry  into   three  categories  and  based   on  this  observation
constructed a model triangle.  The  top apex of this triangle is taken
up by aggregated  stand models.  Process based single  tree models and
architectural tree models  are placed at the base  apices of the model
triangle.  Moving along the sides and inside the triangle captures the
model continuum including aspects from  one or the other two modelling
avenues. 

In  Montpellier, a  city with  over  10 centuries  of known  botanical
heritage, the modelling group AMAP  at CIRAD ('French school') has the
basis for  their plant growth  and analysis systems  AMAPsim, AMAPpara
and AMAPmod  in the architectural analysis by  Halle\'{e} grouping the
morphological caharacteristics of tropical trees into 25 model classes
and the notion  of reiteration observed by Oldeman  where a plant body
is able to duplicate its existing structure.

AMAP re-introduced  the notion of  physiological age as  distinct from
real age  to organize the irreversible stochastic  processes of birth,
growth, branching and death of an apical bud (meristem). Each stage of
the bud  from birth to  death can be  arranged into a  theoretical one
dimensional reference  axis (\textit {axe  de r\'{e}f\'{e}rence}) with
shifts  from one  stage to  another as  possible paths  to  modify the
physiological age of  the bud.  The associated finite  automaton has a
state for each stage in  the reference axis, a transition function for
the shifts between the stages and additional geometric information for
branching and  growth. This finite  automaton system is  sufficient to
determine    architectural   tree   growth    including   reiteration,
self-pruning   and   changes  in   form   as   tree  develops   called
metamorphosis.  The  reference axis  was fully implemented  in AMAPsim
used  to produce  realistic images  of important  trees and  plants in
forestry and agriculture.


The research group at the  Department of Forest Ecology, University of
Helsinki has since early  1970's monitored and modelled functioning of
trees  and   their  environment  \citep{hari:99}.    Analysis  of  the
collected data originally focused on understanding metabolism of trees
but  the  work has  extended  to  analyze  growth and  development  of
individual trees and forest stands.

The  precursory  modelling  work  in \citet{hari:82}  for  Scots  pine
presents  the framework for  the stand  models based  on process-based
single  tree  models  where  the  growth of  trees  is  computed  from
photosynthesis and respiration.  The light regime in a forest stand is
the driving  force of photosynthesis in  a tree from  which dry matter
production, maintenance and  allocation to different tree compartments
(foliage,  stem, branches,  root  system etc.)   represented as  state
variables are contrived using the principle of carbon balance.

The  further analysis  of this  modelling approach  has  improved tree
models  and  lead to  deeper  understanding  the  mechanics of  carbon
allocation,  structural  constraints controlling  tree  form and  tree
interactions supporting the further development of stand models.

To  mention  a  few,  \citet{makela:86}  describe  tree  growth  using
photosynthetic  light   ratio  to  measure   competitive  ability  and
differentiation of  trees. \citet{nikinmaa:92} has  optimization model
for photosynthesis  for single tree involving  light extinction within
canopy and construction cost  branches; stand level dynamics considers
nutrient  flows explicitely.   \citet{sievanen:93}  studies structural
relationships  i.e.  pipe  model  for stem,  branches  and foliage  to
express   tree  and   stand   growth  in   terms  of   height-diameter
relationship.  Tree and  stand model in \citet{makela:97-1} represents
geometric dimensions of woody organs  of stem, branches and roots with
constant   form   parameters.    \citet{makela:97-2}  integrates   two
additional submodels  to calculate these  parameters explicitely.  The
result is  representation of a  three dimensional structure of  a tree
stem used in wood quality (branchiness) analysis of Scots pine.
